foo: CHAPTER 1
foo: Better sleep with a sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.
Ishmael: ...Call me Ishmael. Some years ago — never mind how long precisely —having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the world...
Ishmael: Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely all this is not without meaning. And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned. But that same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.

foo: CHAPTER 36
Starbuck: I came here to hunt whales, not my commander's vengeance.  
Ahab: The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
Starbuck: Vengeance on a dumb brute! To be enraged with a dumb thing! Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous!
Ahab: Talk not to me of blasphemy, man; I’d strike the sun if it insulted me. 
Ahab: ...All visible objects are but as pasteboard masks... If man will strike, strike through the mask! How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me...

foo: CHAPTER 41
Ishmael:  Ahab's quenchless feud seemed mine. With greedy ears I learned the history of that murderous monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of violence and revenge.
Ishmael: When with ivory leg he stepped ashore, no Nantucketer thought him otherwise... all his means are sane, his motive and his object mad.

foo: CHAPTER 42 - The Whiteness of the Whale
Ishmael: What the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he was to me, as yet remains unsaid. Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things appalled me.
Ishmail: Yet for all these accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honourable, and sublime, there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood.
Ishmail: The Albino is as well made as other men--has no substantive deformity--and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be so?
Ishmael: And of all these things the Albino whale was the symbol. Wonder ye then at the fiery hunt?

foo: CHAPTER 58
Ishmael: Consider all this, and then turn to this green gentle and most docile earth. Consider them both the sea and the land, and do you not find a strange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the horrors of the half-known life. God keep thee, push not off from that aisle. thou canst never return.

foo: CHAPTER 96 - The Try-Works
Ishmael: "There is a wisdom that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness."

foo: CHAPTER 132 - The Symphony
Ahab: Starbuck!!
Starbuck: Sir!
Ahab: Oh, Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky. On such a day—very much such a sweetness as this—I struck my first whale—a boy-harpooneer of eighteen! Forty years ago!
Ahab: When I think of this life I have led; the desolation of solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a Captain's exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the green country without—oh, weariness! heaviness!

foo: CHAPTER 135 - The Chase - Third day
Ahab: Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell’s heart I stab at thee; for hate’s sake I spit my last breath at thee!!

pip: Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings